insipid	adj.	uninteresting; having no flavor	"Although his children liked the movie and its silly jokes, Bill found it insipid, no different from a hundred prior films and certainly no more interesting."		1	501contingent	adj.	dependent on conditions or circumstances; conditional; possible	A continuation of Norma's scholarship next year is contingent upon her maintaining at least a B average in her courses.		1	751convene	v.	to bring together	"Because serveral of the flights to town were delayed, the council couldn't convene the meeting until a few hours after it had been scheduled."		1	502beleaguered	adj.	harassed; besieged	"For five months in the fall and winter of 1942, the beleaguered city of Stalingrad held out against a ferocious German onset, a battle that ost the lives of over 1.5 million soldiers"		1	752fortuitous	adj.	occurring by chance (either positive or negative)	A series of fortuitous events resulted in John's being late for work and as a consequence losing his job.		1	503regal	adj.	kingly	"Despite being only an assistant manager, John has a regal manner, as if he is the ruler of a vast kingsdom in the warehouse where he works."		1	753feasible	adj.	capable of being done	Skeptics wondered whether the gradiose scheme was even feasible.		1	504radical	adj.	favoring fundamental or extreme change; relating to roots or origins	"Although Jesse claims to be a conservative, his proposals are in fact quite radical, for they would completely reverse the government's policies of the last 50 years."		1	754guile	n.	slyness in dealing with others	"Many are charmed by Annie's good humor, though a few find it insincere and think she uses it to disguise her guile."		1	505errant	adj.	wandering outside of established limits; straying	The truant officer came to the parents' house to tell them that their errant children had been caught playing hooky.		1	755kin	n.	one's relatives	"Although Edith loved her new husband dearly, she found his kin, especially his brother, intolerable."		1	506chagrin	n.	feeling of embarrassment because of failure or disappointment	"To the chagrin of the campaign manager, his predictions of an overwhelming victory turned out to be widely inaccurate."		1	756apology	n.	a defense in speech or writing of one's beliefs	"After converting from the Anglican to the Roman Catholic church, Newman wrote an apology that explained his theological position."		1	507contentious	adj.	always ready to argue; quarrelsome	"Though some professors expected students to soak up their every word, Rebecca preferred her students to challenge her and maybe even be a bit contentious."		1	757specious	adj.	"seeming to be truthful on the surface, but actually false"	"The lawyer's speciousarguments were aimed at deceiving the jury, but once jurors thought through the case they saw the fallacy in his remarks."		1	508patriarch	n.	a man who rules a family clan; a very respected old man	"The family reunion photograph shows four generations of the Park family, gathered around the proud, elderly patriarch."		1	758vogue	n.	prevailing fashion	"The dress, which was in vogue last year and thus considered the height of style, has now gone out of style, so nobody is wearing it this year."		1	509umbrage	n. 	"offense or resentment (used with ""take"")"	"Richard admitted that his work could have been better byt tiij ynbrage at the suggestion that he had not worked hard, for any suggestion that he was less than diligent was downright offensive."		1	759extrapolate	v.	to predict by extending known information	"Based on population data from the last 20 years, John has extrapolated predictions for the next 20 years by extending the trends he noticed in the data."		1	510paradigm	n.	an example; a model	The scientific paradigm involves proposing theories and then trying to prove them false.		1	760turbid	adj.	cloudy; muddy; in a state of turmoil.	"The river, normally so clear you can see fish in it, became turbid during the storm, and the water became nearly opaque with mud and sediment."		1	511lethargic	adj.	dull; sluggish; moving slowly	"Every Monday morning the class is unusually lethargic, as most students have spent their weekends playing and have not gotten enough sleep."		1	761turgid	adj.	"excessively ornate or complex in style; swollen, as from fluid"	"Hoping he would sound more decisive than he really felt, the president delivered his speech in a pompous, turgid style that fooled no one and bored many."		1	512dissent	v.	to disagree	"in the Supreme Court's decision, a seven-judge majority decided in favor of the state, but two judges dissented, arguing that they could not agree with the majority's broad new rule."		1	762redolent	adj.	aromatic; fragrant; suggestive	"John loved baking mostly because of the aroma, so the kitchen was frequently redolent of baking cookies."		1	513inherent	adj.	included as an essential part; intrinsic	"Computeres are now an inherent part of almost every business; in fact, computers are so essential that it is hard to imagine a modern office without one."		1	763embrace	v.	to hug; to include as part of something larger; to support eagerly	Suspicion of the government has caused many people to embrace wildly implausible conspiracy theories.		1	514frail	adj.	easily broken; delicate	"Under the overturned nest I found a frail baby bird, so I took it home to care for it."		1	764entrenched	adj.	dug in	The negotiations won't get very far as long as both sides remain entrenched and refuse to budge from their initial positions.		1	515intransigent	adj.	refusing to compromise or agree	"Because the parties to the lawsuit were so intransigent, there was no hope of a settlement, and the case went to trial."		1	765enmesh	v.	"to entangle or trap, as in a net or web"	"Determined never to become enmeshed in office disputes, Ivan refused to listen to or pass on gossip."		1	516laughingstock	n.	a person or thing that is the object of laughter	Herbert became the laughingstock of his school when he showed up for the first day of classes wearing a bright red bow tie.		1	766comprehensive	adj.	complete; covering broadly and all-inclusively	The parish lacked the money for a comprehensive reconstruction of the church and so instead settled for some selective repair work.		1	517fulminate	v.	to issue a strong verbal attack	The U.S. Declaration of Independence doesn't set out to describe an ideal government but instead to fulminate against the tyranny of King George III.		1	767fraught	adj.	full of particular quality	Defusing bombs is a job fraught with danger.		1	518juncture	n.	a point of time; a concurrence of events	"Although no one doubted the negotiators would eventually agree, announcing the terms of the agreement at this juncture was premature."		1	768rue	v.	to regret	"When the teacher announced the pop quiz, Kelvin rued his failure to study the night before."		1	519recruit	v.	to restore or renew the health or vitality of	"Having come down with a cold, Jane went to bed early, hoping a long sleep would recruit her health."		1	769venturesome	adj.	"adventurous, risky, daring"	"Now that you've survived your ride on the Ferris wheel, perhaps you're ready to try something a little more venturesome, like hang gliding."		1	520ravage	v.	to cause great destruction to	"The small island was ravaged by the hurricane, which destroyed several buildings, knocked down trees, and ruined roads."		1	770noxious	adj.	harmful to health or the mind	"Since she refuses to have engine work done on her car, Molly instead subjects pedestrians to clouds of black noxious fumes that belch from the tailpipe."		1	521hectic	adj.	characterized by intense activity	"With everyone racing to turn in assignments and study for exams, the last few days of the semester are usually hectic."		1	771desist	v.	to cease; stop	"Lawyers often send ""cease and desist"" letters, though why they should use two synonyms is not clear when they could just say ""stop."""		1	522appraise	v.	to officially estimate the worth of	"As a renowned expert on early books, Professor Tillingham is often called upon to appraise rare manuscripts."		1	772founder	v.	to sink below the water; to fail completely; to go lame (of horses)	"As he felt the ship founder, he looked back calmly on a life without regrets."		1	523deride	v.	to ridicule	Situation comedies often feature a foolish character whom the other characters deride with witty put-downs.		1	773trudge	v.	to walk in a heavy-footed way	The travelers found the dry sand made walking difficult; it seemed they would trudge for hours and make only slight progress.		1	524exuberant	adj.	"lively, happy, and full of good spirits"	"The exuberant good cheer Roberto demonstrated proved infectious, and soon everyone was smiling broadly."		1	774disenchant	v.	to free from false belief	"Brian, who had long had a crush on the glamrous movie star, became disenchanted when he saw her out of makeup and wearing a tee-shirt and he realized she was just like everyone else, not the goddess he had assumed her to be."		1	525guise	n.	"external appearance, esp. a false one"	"Internet thieves send out messages in the guise of security alerts from banks instructing people to verify account information, but these messages are criminal attempts to steal people's identities."		1	775squalid	adj.	having a dirty or lowly appearance	"It is a sad fact that millions of people live in squalid conditions with no plumbing, no waste disposal, no electricity, and few, if any, luxuries."		1	526juxtapose	v.	"to put side by side, esp. for comparison or contrast"	"Terry's young son loved puzzles, especially those that juxtaposed two drawings and challeged him to find the differences between the pictures."		1	776servile	adj.	slavish; adjectly submissive	Joan was rather disconcerted to find that her new boss expected servile flattery rather than thoughtful critique.	3	1	527throng	n.	crowd; a number of people gathered together	"Expecting a throng of reporters and fans to assail him, the aging rock start donned sunglasses and a fake nose before braving the public streets."		1	777pallid	adj.	faint in color; pale	A fashionable trend for men of the early eighteenth century was to wear powdered make-up to give their faces a pallid look.		1	528wake	n.	"track of turbulence left by something moving through water (or figuratively, anything that has passed)"	The war left destruction and famine in its wake.		1	778assess	v.	to estimate	"After the burricane, insurance agents descended upon the town in order to assess the damage and write checks for their policy holders."		1	529ramification	n.	a development or consequence resulting from a course of action	"Before you publicly make such a controversial suggestion, I hope you will consider every possible ramification and not just the one you are hoping for."		1	779fraternal	adj.	showing comradeship; brotherly	"The close fraternal tie remained undiminished, despite the fact that the brothers lived on opposite sides of the country."		1	530articulate	adj.	able to express oneself clearly and effectively	"Because her teenage children used ""uh,"" ""like,"" and ""you know"" so often, Ms. Rutherford was impressed by the articulate young man who avoided such distractions when he spoke before her and the rest of the school board."		1	780steadfast	adj.	loyal; faithful	"The mayor was humbled by the steadfast support of her staff, who stood by her no matter what."		1	531destitution	n.	the lack of any means of subsistence	The Social Security system attempts to prevent destitution among the elderly by providing a financial safety net.		1	781decorum	n.	polite behavior	Jim's lack of decorum at the funeral was especially evident when he belched loudly during the eulogy and then laughed at the shocked looks on others' faces.		1	532propriety	n.	good manners; proper behavior	Reporters questioned the propriety of the politician's receiving such a large donation from someone who had ties to organized crime.		1	782repine	v.	to be discontented or unhappy; to long for something	"Homesics after the move, Will repined for his old life and wanted nothing more than to see the old neighborhood again."		1	533implausible	adj.	difficult to believe	Quentin found his son's story that aliens had abducted him on the way home from school to be highly implausible.		1	783authoritarian	n.	 demanding unquestioning obedience	New pet owners resolve to be strict and authoritarian at first but often wind up spoiling their animals just like everyone else does.		1	534conjecture	n.	an inference or conclusion based on incomplete evidence	"Her conjecture that she would get a new car for her birthday was wrong, but that's because her guess was based more on her desire than on her parents'."		1	784charlatan	n.	a fake; one who pretends to have expert knowledge	Phil believes all self-proclaimed psychics are charlatans since anyone who could tell the future would probably win the lottery every week.		1	535sublime	adj.	of high spiritual or moral worth	"Some people are raised in an atmosphere of high culture and refined appreciation; for others, eating a TV dinner while watching a good video is the most sublime pleasure they desire."		1	785tribulation	n.	 great misery or distress	The Great Depression was a time of tribulation for many Americans.		1	536composure	n.	"a calm state of mind, esp. as the result of self-control"	"One of the most remarkable aspects of Jackie Robinson, the first Black baseball player in Major League Baseball, was his composure, his ability to stay calm even when other players taunted or insulted him."		1	786telltale	adj.	indicating or revealing information	Cash purchases of many expensive items are telltale signs of a person with an illegal source of income.		1	537sediment	n.	a residue that settles in the bottom of something	"Because the Chois never had their pool cleaned, over time a layer of sediment formed on the bottom."		1	787adverse	adj.	"opposed, difficult"	Even the most adverse circumstances can sometimes yield favorable results.		1	538felon	n.	one who has committed a serious crime	"After spending three years in state prison, the felon had a difficult time finding work."		1	788astute	adj.	"showing clever awareness, esp. with respect to one's own concerns"	An astute tenant will read the fine print on a lease before signing it to avoid being surprised by unreasonable conditions.		1	539incipient	adj.	beginning to appear or be noticed	"A week after he had planted the grass seeds, incipient blades could be seen poking up through the soil."		1	789conjugal	adj.	pertaining to marriage relationships	"My grandparents have been married for over 50 years, and their conjugal affection is still as strong as it was the day they were wed."		1	540excavate	v.	to expose to view by digging out	"Last week, workers came to excavate the aging water main on our street and replace it with a new one."		1	790reverrie	n.	daydream	James was peaceful and content until the teacher interrupted his reverie about the girl sitting next to him to ask a question.		1	541endemic	adj.	native to a particular country	"Though it was imported from Europe and Asia, the horse is associated so much with cowboys and indians that people think it's endemic to North America."		1	791filial	adj.	like or relating to a daughter or son	Kurt took his filial responsibilities seriously and was thus a devoted son to his mother.		1	542exalt	v.	to raise in status or character; to increase the effect or intensity of	"Although in theory communism sought to abolish the hero-worship of individuals, in practice the Soviet Union exalted its leaders."		1	792accomplice	n.	accessory; one who assists in a crime	"The police quickly captured the leader of the threesome who pulled off the kidnapping, but they haven't found either accomplice yet."		1	543imperative	adj.	urgently necessary; impossible to deter or evade	"If you sneeze, it is imperative that you wash your hands before you resume cooking or serving food."		1	793epic	n.	"a long narrative poem, in a disnified style, celebrating the deeds of a hero"	"Poet Ezra Pound never finished his epic, ""The Cantos,"" a 120-canto poem that is so long that books containing it can run over 800 pages."		1	544incognito	adv.	in disguise	"The superstar actress goes out in public frequently but is almost always incognito since without a disguise, she is seldom able to have a minute to herself."		1	794demur	v.	to object; to disagree with something	"The board voted unanmously to discontinue the new line of computers, but the CEO demurred, saying that the product would become popular given enough time."		1	545maintain	v.	to provide support; to declare to be true; to defend against criticism	Andre maintained his belief in the existence of UFOs against the ridicule of his friends.		1	795torrid	adj.	parched with heat; ardent or passionate	"The love scenes in this movie were considered torrid in their day, but to us they just look rather tame and silly."		1	546adjudicate	v.	to judge; to preside	"Since the participants obviously could not agree on their own, they brought in an outsider to adjudicate for them."		1	796undermine	v.	to weaken	Periodic outbreaks of continued fighting have undermined the diplomats' claim that the cease-fire is holding.		1	547perjury	n.	lying under oath	The prosecutor told the jury that the defendant had indeed committed the crime and that his mother had committed perjury when she said that her son had been home all night.		1	797repartee	n.	"a quick, witty reply; a series of such replies"	"The members of the Algonquin Round Table engaged in witticisms, clever insults, and other repartee and became famous for their quick wits."		1	548flora	n.	"plants as a group, esp. of a specified region or time"	"When Alejandra visited the Galapagos Islands, she was impressed not only by the wide array of animals she saw but also by the great variety of flora."		1	798elocution	n.	"the art of public speaking, with attention to delivery"	Proper elocution is vital for public speakers since they rely on clear and effective delivery to make their livings.		1	549lout	n.	"an awkward, stupid person"	Her parents were so relieved when she broke up with that boorish lout that they bought her a car.		1	799yearn	v.	"to desire strongly, esp. in a melancholy way"	A few days of summer camp made her yearn to be back home with her family.		1	550abate	v.	"to lessen in amount, intensity or strength"	"The brutal August heat lasted for eight days before it finally abated, though it was still quite warm for another week."		1	780boor	n.	someone who is impolite and rude	"Tammy's last boyfriend was a boor, so now that she is single again, she is looking for someone more refined."		2	551hue	n.	a shade of color	"After a few hours on the boat, Larry became seasick and developed a sickly hue."		2	801dogma	n.	"a specific set of ideas or beliefs, esp. religious or asserted to be absolutely true"	"To zane, the claims of his religion are Truth, but the claims of any other faith are mere dogma."		2	552relinguish	v.	to surrender or release	"After deciding to retire, the boxing champion relinguished his title."		2	802secluded	adj.	"hidden, removed; sheltered"	The party was so noisy and crowded that Lisa and Rose had to hunt for a secluded corner where they could talk without shouting.		2	553tributary	n.	a stream flowing into a larger river	"Once tne little canoe made it through the tributary, there was no doubt it would be eventually washed out to the sea."		2	803tributary	adj.	making additions or producing supplies			2	803trifle	n.	something that lacks significance or worth	Naomi was generally happy since she concentrated only on the important things and did not let trifles bother her.		2	554mystical	adj.	having a spiritual sense or importance beyong human understanding	"Albert Einstein claimed to find a mystical beauty in the laws of nature, seeing the hand of God in the equations of physics."		2	804preclude	v.	to make impossible; to prevent the occurrence of	"During his first year of college, Tim skipped most of his classes, thus precluding any chance of earning good grades."		2	555staple	n.	"a basic or principal item, esp. of food"	Rice is a staple food for billions of people; it is eaten frequently and makes up a large portion of many people's diets.		2	805staple	adj.	principal			2	805limpid	adj.	perfectly clear; transparent	The once limpid waters of the mountain river have now become muddied and polluted by the discharge of so much waste into it.		2	556maneuver	v.	to direct through a series of movements; to manipulate into a desired position	"By publishing the inflammatory Ens Dispatch, Chancellor Otto Von Bismarck maneuvered France into declaring war upon Germany."		2	806purse	v.	to contract into wrinkles or folds; to pucker	"Sucking on a lemon can make you purse your lips, almost as if you are about to kiss someone."		2	557ramshackle	adj.	about to fall apart or fall down	"The landlord led the way up the rotten steps to the second floor, which was so top-heavy it mae the ramshackle house lean sideways."		2	807stricture	n.	a restraint or limit	The strictures on rude behavior are purely social conventions and do not have the force of law.		2	558internecine	adj.	pertaining to conflict withing a group; mutually destructive	"After the country gained its independence, fierce internecine struggles broke out as members of different factions vied for power."		2	808retire	v.	"to retreat, as from battle"	"After Joan of Arc rallied the French troops, the English army was forced to retire to a more secure location."		2	559hearten	v.	encourage; give strength	"In the midst of all his problems, Omar was heartened by the moral support of his friends."		2	809pact	n.	"an agreement between persons, groups or nations"	"As teens, the two best friends made a pact in which each one promised to give a kidney to the other if necessary later in life."		2	560sluggish	adj.	lazy; lacking energy	"When Carol skips breakfast, she feels sluggish all day."		2	810hibernate	v.	sleep throughout the winter	"When they emerge from hibernation, bears need to eat after using up much of their fat supply during their winter slumber."		2	561orchestrate	v.	to arrange so as to achieve a desired effect	It’s the stage manager's job to orchestrate all the complex activities of stage hands and ensure that actors are in the appropriate places at the right time.		2	811paltry	adj.	lackingimportance or worth; contemptibly small	"The new restaurant's cuisine was exquisite, but the serving size was so paltry that we went to a hamburger stand afterward since we were still hungry."		2	562verbiage	n.	excessive wordiness	"The editor tried to keep the substance of the article while shortening it, eliminating the verbiage."		2	812clan	n.	a group of several families descended from a common ancestor and sharing a family name	"When the entire clan came together at the family reunion, there wre over 50 cousins, aunts, grandchildren, and other relations."		2	563pristine	adj.	remaining in a pure state	It's somewhat disconcerting to find litter in the middle of a forest that is supposed to be a pristine and protected reserve.		2	813rejoinder	n.	"an answer, esp. to another answer"	"When I was 8, I thought ""I know you are but what am I"" was a clever rejoinder to an insult."		2	564scoff	v.	to make fun of; to ridicule	"Only a few generations ago, many would have scoffed at the idea that people would one day be able to cross the U.S. in only a few hours."		2	814lineage	n.	direct descent from an ancestor; derivation	"When Lou boasted that his lineage went al the way back to the Mayflower, I introduced hime to my Cherokee friend, whose lineage goes back over a hundrew years before the arrival of Europeans."		2	565inoculate	v.	"to inject something, esp. a medicine, into in order to create immunity"	"Each year, doctors urge children and the elderly to be inoculated before flu season, but many refuse to get the shots."		2	815mania	n.	an excessively intense desire	"In the 1600s, Holland was struck by tulip mania, and the price of a single tulip during this period soared to more than most people earned, but the craze ended almost as quickly as it had begun."		2	566defame	v.	to attack a person's reputation; to slander	"Ingrid defamed her rival for captain of the volleyball team, spreading false rumors among students and coaches."		2	816squabble	n.	"a noisy argument, esp. over an unimportant matter"	What began as a serious discussion of important policy issues quickly degenerated into a squabble over who deserved the most blame for past mistakes.		2	567opaque	adj.	not letting in light; unintelligible	"Many students have claimed that the translation of philosopher Jacques Derrida is opaque: all of the words are recognizably English, but the meaning is almost impossible to decipher."		2	817ruse	n.	an action or device intended to deceive	"Francine's moaning, grimacing, and complaining of stomach pain wre a ruse, but her mother saw through the deception and sent Francine to school."		2	568vigorous	adj.	energetic; forceful; strong and healthy	"As a lawyer, regardless of what she actually thought of her client, Yvette took pride in the fact that she always offered a vigorous defense."		2	818induce	v.	"to influence, esp. by persuation; to bring about; to infer by inductive reasoning"	"Nothing could induce Keisha, a dedicated vegetarian, to try even a bit of the hamburger."		2	569partisan	n.	"a strong, often militant, supporter"	"Dke is such an intense partisan that he always favors his political party, regardless of the position it takes, and as a results, he lack s philosophical consistency."		2	819morbid	adj.	gruesome; awful	"In describing the car accident, she purposely included all the morbid details to make her story interesting."		2	570mausoleum	n.	a huge tomb	"The Taj Mahal, built by Shah Jahan to honor the memory of his favorite wife, is the most famous extant example of a mausoleum."		2	820sabotage	v.	to deliberately obstruct or destroy	The mechanic saw immediately that some had sabotaged the racecar by cutting the fuel line.		2	571monarch	n.	"one who rules a state, usually for life and by hereditary right"	"Today, the power of the British monarch is confined largely to ceremonial functions."		2	821urbane	adj.	sophisticated	"Norman tried to appear urbane by memorizing poetry to quote, but when he skipped lines and forgot words, he seemed anything but sophisticated."		2	572nadir	n.	the lowest point; the bottom	"The actress's caree, with its resume of undistingquished roles, must surely have hit its nadir with the release of this terrible movie."		2	822livid	adj.	"extremely angry; discolored, as from a bruise; pale, ashen"	"Gary became livid when he was accused of corruption, but some thought his excessive anger only made him appear quilty."		2	573bequeath	v.	"to pass down to; to hand down, esp. in a will"	The whole family was disappointed to learn of grandpa's decision to bequeath his enormous fortune to some little-known art museum.		2	823misogyny	n.	hatred of women	"Because all of the victims in his horror films are women, many have accused the director of misogyny."		2	574resuscitate	v.	"to revive, esp. from apparent death or unconsciousness"	"Karen fainted in the stifling press of the crowd, but paramedics quicly resuscitated her with oxygen."		2	824droll	adj.	amusing in an odd or wry way	"Unlike the wild, slapstick humor of silent movies, the comedy in novels tends to be more droll and reflective."		2	575fallacy	n.	"a false notion, esp. one based on incorrect reasoning"	The idea that a cold winter disproves the theory of global warming is a fallacy; a single cold spell does not prove temperatures are not rising on average.		2	825corpulent	adj.	very fat; obese	"Bob defended his appearance, claiming that he was not corpulent but pleasingly plump."		2	576polemic	n.	"a controversial argument, esp. attacking a particular opinion"	"The senator launched into a polemic against the president's proposal, but this angry speech offered no solutins of its own."		2	826resolve	v.	to make a firm decision; to find a solution to	"After being fooled by the con artist, Paula resolved never to be so gullible again."		2	577hearsay	n.	rumor; gossip	"According to hearsay, the teacher planned to give a quiz on Friday, bt the students could not verify the rumor."		2	827acute	adj.	sharp; clever; severe	Anyone who overheard our whispering in the church must have a very acute sense of hearing.		2	578bellow	v.	to yell very loudly; to shout	Mrs. Sampson bellowed from the kitchen for her kids to come in for lunch.		2	828ponderous	adj.	clumsy and heavy; boring and labored	"Jennie isn't afraid of zombies since if they did attack, she could escape them and their ponderous walking simply by walking away briskly."		2	579vagrant	n.	"a person who wanders from place to place, esp. one who lives on the streets and constitutes a pubic nuisance"	"The conductor had become used to sliding open the door to the freight car and finding vagrants napping, eating scraps, or writing poetry."		2	829accord	n.	agreement	Observers are pointing out the obvious when they say there won't be an end to the hostilities until some sort of accord is hammered out.		2	580indigenous	adj.	"native, occurring naturally"	"The island of Madagascar was separated from nearby continents early in its history; as a result, it hosts indigenous plant and animal species found nowhere else."		2	830vanquish	v.	"to defeat, esp. totally"	"The allied British, Belgian, and Prussian forces vanquished Napoleon at the battle of Waterloo."		2	581inert	adj.	unable to move or respond; sluggish	"Despite the efforts of reformers, the government's massive bureaucracy remained inert and resistant to any change."		2	831exasperate	v.	to make very impatient; to annoy greatly	"Liz's insistence on practicing her drums for three hours a day exasperates her parents, who are irritated not only by the noise but also by their daughter's failure to study."		2	582pandemic	adj.	"general, widespread"	"In the aftermath of the terrorist attack on September 11, 2011, fears of another such strike seemed pandemic."		2	832pandemic	n.	a very widespread disease			2	832trite	adj.	"worn out, used too often"	I hope you're not going to try to console me in my time of failure with some trite comment about how at least I tried hard.		2	583nascent	adj.	coming into being; being born	"The plan has been carefully thought out by now, but when it was a nascent idea, it had many problems."		2	833telling	adj.	strikingly effective	"The candidate performed poorly during all of the debate, but the telling moment occurred when she could not name a single Supreme Court justice."		2	584brazen	adj.	"showing shameless, insolent boldness; made of brass"	The judges couldn't remember a case of more brazen rule-breaking on the field; it was as though the athlete were not even trying to hid her cheating.		2	834voluble	adj.	talkative	Even the shyest worker will become voluble when the subject of a raise is brought up.		2	585harbinger	n.	someone or something that indicates what is to come	The sniffles and a cough are the harbingers of illness.		2	835dampen	v.	"to deaden, restrain, or repress"	"Nothing could dampen the young child's enthusiasm for Christmas, and so she woke her parents at four in the morning to ask if she could open her presents yet."		2	586stalwart	adj.	firm and resolute; having imposing physical strength	"The defendant was touched by the stalwart loyalty of his friends, who were called to testify at his trial."		2	836transparent	adj.	obvious; undisguised	The child's trasparent delight at receiving the new toy made all the adults in the room smile.		2	587ledger	n.	a book for keeping financial records	The accountant was precise and recorded every transaction in the ledger so that you could tell by a quick glance exactly how much money the company had to the last cent.		2	837perspicacious	adj.	having keen perception or understanding	She was too perspicacious to be deceived by such a flawed argument		2	588assiduous	adj.	diligent; hard-working; constant	"Obviously, she owes her high SAT scores to devoting assiduous attention to her vocabulary tests."		2	838tamp	v.	to pack tightly by tapping repeatedly	"After planting the seeds, Marilyn gently tamped down the dirt with the flat of her shovel."		2	589quarantine	n.	enforced isolation to prevent the spread of disease	"When the first astronauts returned from the moon, they were placed in quarantine, just in case they brought back some unknow space virus with them."		2	839quarantine	v.	to isolate for such purpose			2	839provisional	adj.	provided for the time being; temporary	"After her boss was forced to retire because of health problems, Helen served as the provisional department head until a permanent replacement could be found."		2	590harrowing	adj.	very distressing; painful	"A mechanical problem sent the airplane on a harrowing, 8000-foot plunge before the pilot could regain control."		2	840nepotism	n.	showing facoritism to relatives	"Joseph Kennedy Sr. insisted that Bobby Kennedy be made Attorney General, despite the inevitable charges of nepotism that Bobby's brother would face for appointing him."		2	591abet	v.	"to encourage, assist, or support, usually in wrongdoing"	"The moment you chose to abet the thieves by providing them with the key to the museum, you became just as guilty as they were."		2	841extant	adj.	currently or actually existing	"Remaining artifacts from the region are beautiful, making it all the more regrettable that so few are extant."		2	592obscure	adj.	lacking light; dim; dark	"Without a light, the spelunker could not determine how far back the obscure depths of the cave went."		2	842scathing	adj.	"very harsh in something, like a remark"	As a critic she is notorious for her scathing and intolerant movie reviews.		2	593immaculate	adj.	perfectly clean	Only in the nineteenth century did surgeons understand the nature of airborne contaminants and thus realize the importance of an immaculate operating room.		2	843sequel	n.	something that follows	"Whenever a movie earns a lot of money, a sequel is almost inevitable."		2	594office	n.	a duty or function assigned to someone	"Because both her mother and her father spent such long hours at work, Jane had to assume the office of a parent, taking care of her younger siblings each afternoon."		2	844capricious	adj.	erratic; tending to change abruptly	People ordinarily agonize for months over the purchase of a new house; it's seldom a capricious decision.		2	595repository	n.	 a place where things are kept for safekeeping	"For fear the loss of climate control might harm these rare books, not even scholars are permitted to take them from their repository."		2	845headstrong	adj.	showing determination	"If you're going to maintain your headstrong insistence on getting a raise, you'd better be ready in advance with all your reasons."		2	596verdant	v.	green	"The drought was visibly behind us when the hills were suddenly covered with lush, verdant vegetation."		2	846ebullient	adj.	in high sprirts; boiling or seeming to boil	We were all in an ebullient mood when we saw that we held the winning numbers to the lottery.		2	597incite	v.	"to provoke and urge on; to encourage to act, esp. in a hostile action"	"Some rap artists claim their violent lyrics are intended to describe a present situation, never to incite future violent acts."		2	847confound	v.	to mix up or lump together indiscriminately; to confuse	This latest CD will reassure those who like the artist's material to begin with but will only further confound those who never understood it in the first place.		2	598indisposed	adj.	slightly ill; unwilling	"Although he spent minutes relating a story intended to tug at my heartstrings, I was still indisposed to help him."		2	848ominous	adj.	threatening harm; showing evil	"Moments before the air-raid sirens began to wail, an ominous silence fell over the city."		2	599inveterate	adj.	established for a long time; habitual	"An inveterate gambler,Jake would bet on anything, including how long he could go without making a bet."		2	849offset	v.	to balance or counteract	The ordinary and tasteful example was clearly intended to offset the impact of his offensive earlier work.		2	600husband	v.	to use sparingly; to conserve	"The experienced runner allowed others to take an early lead, but husbanded his energy in the knowledge that an early sprint would leave him exhausted."		2	850alleviate	v.	"to reduce pain, esp. temporarily or without removing its cause"	"Lynn found that a hot shower helped alleviate headache pain, but his doctor could not explain why the water would reduce the pain."		3	601admonish	v.	to warn so a fault can be corrected or a danger avoided	Dan's father admonished him to spend less time playing basketball and more time studying.		3	851reprise	n.	 a recurrence or resumption of an action	"Ten years after first starring in the play, the actor reprised the role that made him famous."		3	602reprise	v.	to repeat			3	602commute	v.	 to change a punishment to one less severe	"With only an hour to go before the execution, the governor commuted the prisoner's death sentence to life in prison."		3	852disparate	adj.	entirely unlike	"For a couple with such disparate interests, they have a remarkably happy marriage."		3	603meager	adj.	lacking in quantity or vigor; scanty	Harold received a D on his term paper because he wrote a meager four pages while the teacher had requested ten.		3	853jovial	adj.	"full of hearty, playful good humor"	"Our group was jovial as the trip began, but a series of problems quickly dissipated our good humor."		3	604disarage	v.	to speak in a disapproving or slighting manner; to belittle	Kelvin's habit of disparaging his friends behind their backs soon led to his having many fewer friends.		3	854denounce	v.	to speak out against; to accuse publicly	"Once its most famous spokesman, the celebrity instead began to denounce the product when he found out it was poisonous."		3	605neural	adj.	"pertaining to a nerve, the nervous system, or the brain"	The peculiar disorder left him unable to sense temperature in his left hand.		3	855forbear	v.	to be patient or avoid doing	"So far, I hate your book but I will forbear to give you any criticism until I have read the whole thing."		3	606refuse	n.	garbage	"Though not necessarily the most glamorous form of archeology, sifting through the refuse of a society is a powerful way of learning about that society since a people's waste says a lot about everyday life."		3	856elucidate	v.	to make something clear; to clarify	"Since you're so confused, maybe a few helpful photographs will help me elucidate the process of erosion."		3	607prosperity	n.	wealth; good fortune	"When the factory closed, the town's prosperity disappeared, and hundreds were left jobless."		3	857credible	adj.	capable of being believed	"Believing that the prosecution's star witness was not credible, the jury found the defendant not guilty."		3	608engulf	v.	to swallow up; overwhelm	"The 30-foot-high storm surge from the hurricane engulfed the beach-front homes, flooding even second-story rooms."		3	858tamper	v.	"to interfere, esp. in order to damage or weaken"	"Jed discovered that someone had tampered with his science project, rewiring the electric motor so that it would not work."		3	609saturate	v.	to soak or fill to capacity	"When the pipe burst in the ceiling, a stain appeared at first, the plaster eventually became saturated with water, and then the entire ceiling collapsed."		3	859venerate	v.	to look upon with respect and honor	Veteran's Day is set aside each November as a time to venerate those who fought to defend out country in times of war.		3	610invalidate	v.	to cancel; deprive of legal importance; nullify	"The three world records set at the swim meet were invalidated when it was discovered that the pool was six inches too short, and the old records were reinstated."		3	860venue	n.	"the location where something takes place, esp. a trial"	"Because of strong local feeling about the case, defense lawyers requested that the trial be moved to a new venue."		3	611wreak	v.	to inflict; to cause (something bad)	"The hurricane wreaked havoc along the coastline, and a week later, many towns were still flooded."		3	861oasis	n.	a fertile place in a desert due to the presence of water; any lace or thing offering relief from difficulty or dullness	"Bubbling up from underground, the water created an oasis, the only spot in the desert for miles where plants thrived and animals came for water."		3	612auditory	adj.	relating to the sense of hearing	"The new auditorium looks gorgeous, but the designers should have paid more attention to auditory concerns since the acoustics are awful, and concerts sound as if they are being performed in a tin can."		3	862evacuate	v.	to remove the contents of; to discharge; to withdraw	"After heavy rains made the hillside unstable, building inspectors ordered several families to evacuate their homes in case of a landslide."		3	613muse	v.	to meditate; to consider thoughtfully	"While waiting for his bus, Charles mused on the advantages of owning a car."		3	863parody	n.	a humorous and ridiculous imitation	"The new novel is a parody of cozy mysteries and mocks all of the cliches, holding up for riducule all of the conventions of such mysteries."		3	614disdain	n.	a feeling of contempt	"Jeff glared with disdain at the man talking on his phone in the movie theater, thinking such rudeness was beneath contempt."		3	864ossified	adj.	"changed to bone; hardened, often figurative"	"It seems to be an inevitable tendency for large organizations, over time, to become bureaucratic, ossified, and resistant to change."		3	615grovel	v.	to beg; to lower oneself to please another	You have to look firm and assertive when you ask the boss for a raise; you'll only lose his respect if you grovel.		3	865recondite	adj.	not easily understood	Those who are not trained in the law often find the recondite language of legal contracts to be confusing and off-putting.		3	616delegate	v.	to entrust to another person	"As she already had too many projects, Jill delegated the new task to a subordinate."		3	866delegate	n.	a person authorized to act as the representative of another			3	866malignant	adj.	very harmful; threatening death; cancerous (of a tumor)	One of his lungs had to be removed because of the malignant tumors growing in it.		3	617retrospect	n.	the consideration of past events	It's always much easier to decide what we should have done in retrospect than it is to predict what to do ahead of time.		3	867prescribe	v.	to set down as a rule	Eighteenth-century grammarians began to prescribe rules for English that were borrowed from Latin grammar rather than being based on the way people actually spoke.		3	618utopia	n.	an ideally perfect place	"The utopia envisioned in your proposal sounds undeniably attractive, but few believe we'll ever attain it."		3	868sordid	adj.	extremely dirty; morally corrupt	"Melissa knew that her husband had had an affair, but she had no desire to learn all the sordid details."		3	619ponder	v.	to think over with great care	"Because Robert always ponders every decision carefully, he never makes up his mind quickly."		3	869abash	v.	to embarrass	"The student was clearly abashed after he called his teacher ""Mommy,"" and his face turned a deep red."		3	620intervene	v.	to come between two things	The government appointed an arbitrator to intervene in the dispute between the airline and its pilots.		3	870efficacy	n.	the power to produce the desired effect	The efficacy of the medicine is decreased after a big meal; these pills are more effective when taken on an empty stomach.		3	621ineffable	adj.	incapable of being expressed	The experience Bill had swimming with the dolphins was ineffable: never afterwards could he describe to his friends how he had felt.		3	871misapprehension	n.	a misunderstanding	"Ed labored under the misapprehension that his friends liked him for himself, but in fact they were simply using him for his money."		3	622imposing	adj.	"impressive by virtue of size, power, or manner"	"The professional footbal player is an imposing figure given his size and muscular build, but he really is a pleasant person."		3	872benign	adj.	kindly; creating a favorable influence; (in medicine) not dangerous to one's health	The old man sat quietly with a benign smile on his face as he watched his great-grandchildren play on the floor in front of him.		3	623vanguard	adj.	the leading position in army or fleet; the leading position in a movement or trend	Bands that are in the vanguard of popular music tend not to do as well as those that play more traditional music.		3	873baleful	adj.	harmful or threatening harm or evil	The adventurer felt a quiver of fear run through him as he came under the baleful eye of a panther.		3	624calamity	n.	an event causing extreme trouble and misery	"The storm was a true calamity, as it destroyed half the houses on the little island."		3	874credit	v.	to believe; to trust	George had been such a lackadaisical student throughout the year that his teacher could hardly credit his superlative test scores and was convinced that he had cheated.		3	625irony	n.	"a use of words in which the intended meaning is very different from the literal sense; an incongruity between what might be expected and what actually occurs, esp. one that suggests a lesson about human folly"	"When his daughter sent him an email about how much she hated technology, Cal couldn't help but smile at the irony."		3	875fluster	v.	to make nervous or upset	"Unaccustomed to praise, Oliver was flustered when his teacher held up his essay as an example of good writing, and he managed to blurt out only a weak ""thank you.{"""		3	626ingenuous	adj.	innocent; naïve	His ingenuous belief in the kindness of total strangers could get him in trouble some day.		3	876stymie	v.	to obstruct; to stump	"The physics fianl consisted of only one problem, but one so difficult that it stymied half the class."		3	627meritorious	adj.	deserving reward or praise	"At the end of a long and distinguished career, the general received a medal for his meritorious service to the armed forces."		3	877supercede	v.	to replace	"This set of orders is meant to supercede the last set, which you can now throw away."		3	628prodigy	n.	one with exceptional talents	The child prodigy could multiply four-digit numbers in his head by the time he was eight.		3	878quell	v.	to ease; to calm down	"When the boss starts screaming his head off like that, you might as well go home; there is nothing you can do to quell his anger."		3	629fidelity	n.	strict faithfulness to vows or promises; exact correspondence with fact	Mimi always cries at weddings because she finds the thought of two people swearing fidelity to each other unbearably romantic.		3	879ambivalence	n.	simultaneous existence of opposing feelings; uncertainty s to what to do	"Dudley was paralyzed by ambivalence: he wanted to go to the concert with his friends, but he also wanted to study for the test the next day."		3	630primeval	adj.	relating to the beginning of the first world ages	Scientists have learned much about primeval life on this planet by the use of radio-carbon dating.		3	880timorous	adj.	full of fear	The timorous eyes of the child revealed his reluctance to leave his mother in order to spend the day with his kindergarten class.		3	631verisimilitude 	n.	resemblance to the truth	"The demand for verisimilitude is reduced in comic books, where the readers permit a greater departure into fantasy."		3	881impecunious	adj.	having no money; poor; penniless	"Convinced that he had figured out a great betting system, Lorne took all of his money out of the bank and went to Las Vegas, only to return impecunious after losing everything."		3	632rout	n.	an overwhelming defeat; a disorderly retreat or flight following a defeat	"We went there expecting a close and exciting game, but the rout was so thorough and immediate that we left at halftime."		3	882rout	v.	to defeat overwhelmingly			3	882adamant	adj.	"stubornly unyielding; impervious to pleas, appeals, or reason"	The mayor was adamant: she would not back down from her pledge to increase funding to improve city streets.		3	633presumptuous	adj.	excessively forward or overconfident	"It may have been presumptuous of Ted to email the supermodel and ask him to his prom, but Ted always claimed that big gains in life required bold risks."		3	883melle	n.	"a noisy, confused fight"	"Unfortunately, the store's promotion, in which it sold two new televisions for $1 each, resulted in a melee as people at first pushed each other and then started a full-scale fight"		3	634translucent	adj.	"letting light through, but no visual details"	"The bathroom window had a translucent finish, which admitted sunlight without allowing anyone to see inside."		3	884euphemism	n.	the substitution of an agreeable word or phrase to replace one that might offend	Saying someone has passed on to meet his maker in that great cornfield in the sky is just a euphemism for saying he has died.		3	635defunct	adj.	having ceased to exist or live	"Since the Soviet Union became defunct, the political situation in Eastern Europe has turned far more complicated."		3	885rouse	v.	to wake or provoke	Felix was having a wonderful dream about swimming at the beach when his mother roused him from his sleep and told him he had to shovel the snow before school.		3	636jetsam	n.	cargo or equipment thrown overboard to lighten a ship in distress; discarded material washed ashore	"A trail of jetsam, signs of the crew's vain effort to lighten the ship, led the salvage team to the sunken wreck."		3	886mettle	n.	courage; strength of character	The veteran soldiers had already had their mettle tested in combat and were unlikely to shrink from the dangerous duty to which they were assigned.		3	637embellish	v.	to decorate; to add ornamental or fictitious details to	"Frank would have gotten away with his lie, but then he proceeded to embellish his story with so many implausible details that it became completely unbelievable."		3	887unremitting	adj.	constant; not stopping	"Life for our ancestors was generally one of unremitting labor, but today most people have the opportunity for at least some leisure."		3	638malicious	adj.	spiteful	"We understood why the thieves stole our electronics, but slashing out paintings and smashing our family photographs was just malicious and could only have been done to hurt us."		3	888ornery	adj.	mean-spirited and contrary in attitude	"illness made the old man ornery, as his pain caused him to lash out at others."		3	639acquiesce	v.	to agree without protest	"Shy and subservient, Henry acquiesces to all of the demands that other people make of him."		3	889curriculum	n.	all the courses of study offered by an educational institution	"Despite frequent calls for reform of the curriculum, the general pattern that higher education follows today was set in the late nineteenth century."		3	640gambit	n.	"a calculated, risky opening move"	Basing their network on offbeat programming for younger audiences turned out to be a successful gambit for the executives who founded Fox.		3	890oscillate	v.	to move back and forth regularly	"As a manic depressive, he oscillates between moments of great joy and deep despair."		3	641pretext	n.	an excuse; a strategy intended to conceal something	"The police stopped the car on the pretext that its brake lights were out, but in fact they just thought the driver looked suspicious."		3	891replete	adj.	well-filled; abundantly supplied	"After Oliver returned from the grocery store, his pantry was replete with food enough to feed an army."		3	642endorse	v.	to give approval or support to	"Celebrities are often paid a lot of money to endorse products, but are we really so gullible that we drink a particular soda just because a star says we should?"		3	892synopsis	n.	a short summary that outlines the main points of something	Most novels have a synopsis of the plot on the back cover so that potential readers can have an idea what the story is about.		3	643flotsam	n.	wreckage of a ship or its cargo found floating on the sea	"Months after the freighter smacked into the iceberg, flotsam from its hull and cargo stil littered the North Sea."		3	893surmount	v.	"to overcome (e.g., an obstacle); to climb to the top of"	Sarah showed a fierce determination to surmount every obstacle and achieve her goal of becoming a wealthy businesswoman.		3	644recalcitrant	adj.	marked by stubborn defiance of authority or guidance	"Though the police made both threats and promises, the suspect remained recalcitrant and would not admit anything, and, in fact, he seemed to mock the officers' authority as he defied them."		3	894assent	n.	formal agreement	"Before the bank would approve the loan, three bank officials had to give their assent."		3	645assent	v.	 to agree formally			3	645gingerly	adv.	very carefully; cautiously	"The baker gingerly applied the last touches to the seven-layer wedding cake, his carefulness obviously caused by an awareness of how disastrous one little slip could be."		3	895discord	n.	conflict or disagreement	"My twins are having a hard time getting along with each other, and their constant discord is beginning to irritate me."		3	646discrete	adj.	individually distinct or separate	"To keep the ship from sinking from a single tear in the hull, its underside has been divided into hundreds of discrete chambersm ensuring that most of it will remain buoyant."		3	896conclusive	adj.	serving to settle a matter or put an end to doubt	The DNA evidence proved conclusive and convinced the jury to convict the defendant.		3	647prevaricate	v.	to speak or write evasively in order to avoid telling the truth	"A master at prevarication, the politician often spoke in doublespeak, leading people to believe he had said something significant when all the while he was being evasive and hiding the truth."		3	897endearment	n.	an act expressing affection; fondness	"When people have just started dating, they tend to use terms of endearment, like ""honey,"" ""sweetheart,"" and ""beautiful."""		3	648prodigious	adj.	wonderful; amazing; very big	"He gained success in his lifetime through hard work and good publicity, but his high standing in the eyes of later generations is the result of his prodigious talent."		3	898impotent	adj.	powerless; helpless; ineffective	"Watching his team play without him, the injured player felt impotent, little more than a spectator and no more powerful than one."		3	649impregnable	adj.	invincible; unconquerable	The dictator didn't care what happened to his country so long as he was safe in his impregnable underground bunker.		3	899stature	n.	height of a person or animal in an upright position; level of achievement	"Thanks to her great stuture in the field, every word she writes is carefully examined by her peers."		3	650modulate	v.	to adjust or regulate	"Since I still have a headache, I'll ask you to modulate your voice to a lower volume."		3	900